
# Cambricon: An instruction Set Architecture for Neural Networks
 The Neural Networks (NN) are belonged to a broad range of emerging machine learning and pattern recondition applications. NN are normally executed on general purpose processors which are usually not energy efficient. Because that, recently there are application-specific hardware that are used to improve the energy-efficient. They only designed for a small set of NN techniques sharing similar computational patterns. Although it’s an easy way for limited set of similar NN techniques, the lack of agility in the instruction set make it hard to support a variety of different NN techniques with sufficient flexibility and efficiency. In this paper, the authors propose a novel domain-specific Instruction Set Architecture (ISA) for NN accelerators, called Cambricon. The Cambricon is a load-store architecture which only allows the main memory to be accessed with load/store instructions. Cambricon contains 64 32-bit General-Purpose Registers (GPRs) for scalars, which can be used in register-indirect addressing of the on-chip scratchpad memory, as well as temporally keeping scalar data. Cambricon does not use any vector register file but keeps data in on-chip scratchpad memory. The reason to that is to support intensive, contiguous, variable-length accesses to vector/matrix data. They also do the evaluation over a total of ten representative yet distinct NN techniques have demonstrated that Cambricon exhibits strong descriptive capacity over a broad range of NN techniques. Also compared to the latest NN accelerator design, Cambricon- based accelerator prototype implemented in TSMC 65nm technology incurs only negligible latency, power, and area overheads, with a versatile coverage of 10 different NN benchmarks.
[URL](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/7551409)
